- [Narrator] Now that we have understood the thread
and the runnable APIs let us understand
the limitations that come along with it.
The thread or runnable APIs are
sufficient for low-level and basic tasks.
And don't forget, as a developer, you have
to create the instances of the threads and start them off.
So as a developer you are responsible
for creating and managing the threads
in the system or the application.
All of this logic of creation and management
of threads is in addition to the business logic
of the application that you anyway are supposed to code.
Now, the multi-threading capability offers you
a chance to utilize the cores of the CPU effectively.
However, in order to support this completely we also
need to write an application with solid parallelism logic.
And there are a lot of factors that you
need to take into consideration when
you actually write out such logic.
For example, what are the jobs
that should be executed by threads?
When is a thread supposed to start its execution?
What happens when there is an error in the execution?
What happens if there is an interruption in the execution?
How do I make sure that all the threads of my system
are completely terminated when my application shuts down?
And so on and so forth, the list is endless.
Difficult isn't it?
And all of this logic in addition to that business logic.
Too much of code to write.
As the complexity of your system grows,
the number of users grow.
For a large-scale application, thread creation
and management becomes even further
tedious with these very basic APIs.
Moreover, you could have additional requirements
in your application, like for example,
you want to schedule certain jobs in your
application at certain regular intervals,
or maybe with a definite delay.
So for all of these requirements you'll
have to code your own logic.
Well that's too much code to write, and it's too
difficult to implement all of this isn't it.
And that is why to overcome these limitations
we actually have that high level of APIs
as per the standard edition platform,
which is the Executor Framework.
So let's understand that.
The Executor Framework provides you
standardized invocation, scheduling, execution,
and control of asynchronous tasks in parallel threads.
It is composed of classes and interfaces, of course,
that provide the entire logic
for creation and management of threads.
It was released as JAVA specification request JSR 166,
as per the JAVA standard edition version 5 platform.
In the next video we're going to take
a look at the features of the framework,
and then we'll understand how are the
limitations going to be overcome
by the framework that we talked about right now.